add infra q2-q3 2026 blog post (#1881)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: content/inside-rust/infrastructure-team-2026-q2-recap-and-q3-plan/index.md

We introduced [official support to hardware keys](https://github.com/rust-lang/infra-team/issues/245)
as part of the security processes within the Rust infrastructure. We created a
[policy mandating multi-factor authentication with hardware keys](https://forge.rust-lang.org/infra/policies/mfa-critical-systems.html)
for people and teams with access to systems considered critical, and in
[partnership with Yubico](https://www.yubico.com/why-yubico/secure-it-forward/)
we empowered Rust Project members with YubiKeys.

We also [documented how Project members can configure these devices](https://forge.rust-lang.org/infra/docs/hardware-security-keys.html) for existing use cases, and we want to
expand this support even further enabling new possibilities on top of them.

### Partnership with Canonical and Ubuntu Pro for EC2 instances

As a follow-up of [Canonical joining the Rust Foundation back in March](https://canonical.com/blog/canonical-joins-the-rust-foundation-as-a-gold-member)
we got access to [Ubuntu Pro](https://ubuntu.com/pro) licenses and
applied them to our EC2 instances running all LTS versions of Ubuntu,
including the instance underpinning [docs.rs](http://docs.rs).

> We improved our IaC setup to drive and apply these changes, so that Ubuntu

Reviewer: Maybe just expand the abbreviation? Not everyone might know it.

Pro will be enabled by default even in future instances.

### Faster mergeability checks in Bors

We switched from GitHub's REST API to the GraphQL API and cut Bors

> mergeability check times from an average of 30 minutes to just 1 minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pull request mergeability check times from an average of 30 minutes to just 1 minute.
```

## Q3.2026 Plans

### Finish leftover work from Q2

Some of the things we could not finish in Q2 we will continue to work
on Q3:

* Finalize the work related to Google SSO  
* Finalized the modernization of [docs.rs](http://docs.rs) infrastructure

### Improvements on Github Actions Security

We've been actively working on Github Actions security making the most of
our mentorship program in the Outreachy. This effort started back in April
when we evaluated zizmor as a SAST solution for Github Actions in some of
our repositories.

> As a follow-up of [one of the sessions we had](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/51) in the Rust All-Hands, we started working on a [system to foster zizmor](https://github.com/rust-lang/crabwatch) auditing and progressive adoption across the whole rust-lang [organization](http://organization.We).

Reviewer: The last link is wrong/unfinished sentence?

### Move mailing lists from Mailgun to Google Groups to reduce spam

As a follow-up of setting up a Google Workspace for [rust-lang.org](http://rust-lang.org)
we want to evaluate whether Google Groups can reduce the spam for
existing mailing lists, nowadays managed through Mailgun. We want to
enable the same Developer Experience for these new mailing lists provisioning
them through `team`, and evaluate how to migrate existing lists in case
the results are satisfactory.

### Consolidate logs on Datadog

> As part of our efforts to improve Observability, we want to consolidate all log

Reviewer: Aside: this would be great! Examining logs in AWS CloudWatch is very difficult for me.

Reviewer 2: I can only concur with that, looking at the logs in AWS CloudWatch is very difficult.

This effort started in April when we adopted zizmor as a
Static Application Security Testing solution for GitHub Actions in some of our repositories.

As a follow-up of [one of our Rust All-Hands sessions](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/51), we started working on a
[system to foster zizmor](https://github.com/rust-lang/crabwatch) auditing and progressive adoption across the `rust-lang`
[organization](https://github.com/rust-lang/).

### Move mailing lists from Mailgun to Google Groups to reduce spam

As a follow-up to setting up the Google Workspace for the Rust Project,
we want to evaluate whether Google Groups can reduce spam for existing mailing
lists, which are currently managed through Mailgun. We want to keep the same
developer experience by provisioning these new mailing lists through `team`.
If the results are satisfactory, we will also migrate existing lists.

### Consolidate logs on Datadog

As part of our efforts to improve observability, we want to consolidate all log
management in Datadog. Next, we want to push logs from all services into
it, including those from our bots (`triagebot`, `bors`, etc).

> ### Stricter networking access rules for crater agents

Reviewer 3: NB: this will be a more recurring thing that I'd expect will span Q3/Q4, but also auditing and minimizing reliance on external networked resources in rust-lang/rust CI environments. This is primarily a reliability and availability thing.

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/1881/71b9b153b988554cb5541bc366d88268b581b5fb..7d87757e5a02962550428e0ac824eb2d5f4a27dc)*

Reviewer 4: added the section "Reduce reliance on external resources in CI" in https://github.com/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/pull/1881/changes/9cdc4932ae1fd0993ea0bf5af3f457c0410d0060

Let me know what do you think

Reviewer 3: Looks good, thanks

> As discussed during the Rust All-Hands, we want to improve the security of

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We want to improve the security of
```
probably this is a small detail that the reader doesn't care about. What does everyone think?

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/1881/71b9b153b988554cb5541bc366d88268b581b5fb..7d87757e5a02962550428e0ac824eb2d5f4a27dc)*

Reviewer: I don't think it matters much, but when I was outside of the Rust Project before, I always appreciated little behind-the-scenes details like this :)

for people and teams with access to systems considered critical, and in
[partnership with Yubico](https://www.yubico.com/why-yubico/secure-it-forward/)
we empowered Rust Project members with YubiKeys.

We also [documented how Project members can configure these devices](https://forge.rust-lang.org/infra/docs/hardware-security-keys.html)
for existing use cases. We want to expand this support further, enabling new
ways to use the keys.

### Partnership with Canonical and Ubuntu Pro for EC2 instances

As a follow-up to [Canonical joining the Rust Foundation](https://canonical.com/blog/canonical-joins-the-rust-foundation-as-a-gold-member) in March,
we got access to [Ubuntu Pro](https://ubuntu.com/pro) licenses and
applied them to our EC2 instances,
including the instance running [docs.rs](http://docs.rs).

We improved our Infrastructure as Code setup to apply these changes, so that Ubuntu
Pro will be enabled by default even in future instances.

### Faster mergeability checks in Bors

We switched from GitHub's REST API to the GraphQL API and cut Bors
pull request mergeability check times from an average of 30 minutes to just 1 minute.

> 

Reviewer 2: Here are my suggestions for the triagebot team.

--------
### Add the concept of community reviews before PR assignment

As part of multiple discussions that happened during the 2026 All-hands, the Clippy team asked the Triagebot team to be able to delay the assignment of a reviewer until one or multiple community reviews were done.

That work was carried out in [triagebot#2426](https://github.com/rust-lang/triagebot/pull/2426) ([docs](https://forge.rust-lang.org/triagebot/pr-assignment.html#community-reviews)). It has yet to be enabled in the Clippy repository.

### Reintroduce delegation approval for merge queue repositories

When we switched our repositories to GitHub merge queues instead of bors (our custom merging bot), we lost the ability to delegate approval on behalf of the reviewer.

That functionality is quite useful when there are only some nits left and the reviewer feels confident about the author's ability to resolve them without having to re-review and approve the changes.

Work was carried out in [triagebot#2412](https://github.com/rust-lang/triagebot/pull/2412) and [triagebot#2436](https://github.com/rust-lang/triagebot/pull/2436) to add such functionality back. It's currently only enabled on the Clippy repository:
 - `@rustbot delegate[=@handle]`
 - `@rustbot merge`

### Continue supporting the moderation team with locking/unlocking of issues

As part of the effort to help the moderation team better moderate issues and pull requests in our different repositories and organizations, triagebot gained support for locking and unlocking an issue/PR from a GitHub command and Zulip DM.

### Quality of life improvements in our range-diff viewer for GitHub PRs

We landed multiple quality of life improvements in our range-diff viewer for GitHub PRs.

#### Filtering of context-only hunks

As part of our range-diff, we try as much as possible to only show the relevant parts of a diff. Context changes (lines that changed on main only) are not relevant, and we made a significant effort to filter them out from the shown diff.

More details are available in [triagebot#2398](https://github.com/rust-lang/triagebot/pull/2398).

#### Commit messages diff

Our range-diff now shows the list of commits and diffs them with the previous ones.

New commits:

<img width="786" height="688" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2ce951ba-2039-47ca-812e-67c6f5e91bf6" />

#### Warning against Unicode Bidi characters

Following what GitHub does when it detects Unicode Bidi characters in a PR diff, we now also warn since [triagebot#2440](https://github.com/rust-lang/triagebot/pull/2440).

<img width="1446" height="1292" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3095cac5-cea5-4f14-8e6d-ee995f6a85cb" />

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/1881/71b9b153b988554cb5541bc366d88268b581b5fb..1ca71c43cf2356a4effa535d83a4b4ecfe8a9853)*

> 

Reviewer 5: Not many changes from me. I don't know if these changes are worth a mention:

## Small tweaks to the triagebot

A new [triagebot command][cmd-assign-priority] to assign a priority value to regressions directly from Zulip, useful when doing triage. Example:
```
@**triagebot** assign-priority 123456 high
```

Minor tweaks (in [b1e783a2] and [6611570e]) to the triagebot `backport` and `user-info` commands, which now support shorter variants:
```
# Supported syntaxes for the `backport` command
@**triagebot** backport accept beta 123456
@**triagebot** backport accept beta
@**triagebot** backport accept

# Supported syntaxes for the `user-info` command
@**triagebot** user-info https://www.github.com/apiraino
@**triagebot** user-info apiraino
```

[b1e783a2]: https://github.com/rust-lang/triagebot/commit/b1e783a2
[6611570e]: https://github.com/rust-lang/triagebot/commit/6611570e
[cmd-assign-priority]: https://forge.rust-lang.org/triagebot/zulip-commands.html#stream-commands

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/1881/71b9b153b988554cb5541bc366d88268b581b5fb..1ca71c43cf2356a4effa535d83a4b4ecfe8a9853)*

lists, which are currently managed through Mailgun. We want to keep the same
developer experience by provisioning these new mailing lists through `team`.
If the results are satisfactory, we will also migrate existing lists.

### Consolidate logs on Datadog

As part of our efforts to improve observability, we want to consolidate all log
management in Datadog. Next, we want to push logs from all services into
it, including those from our bots (`triagebot`, `bors`, etc).

### Reduce reliance on external resources in CI

We want `rust-lang/rust` CI to depend less on third-party services during builds
and tests. When CI downloads required artifacts from external sources,
an outage in those services can cause failures unrelated to Rust itself.

To make CI more reliable, we plan to mirror more of those artifacts in the
Rust project's [CI mirrors](https://github.com/rust-lang/ci-mirrors).

### Stricter networking access rules for crater agents

As discussed during the Rust All-Hands, we want to improve the security of
crater agents by [isolating their network access](https://github.com/rust-lang/crater/issues/838).

> 

Reviewer 5: Also unsure if this one tiny change if interesting at all:

### Start planning for GitHub REST API upgrade

The current GitHub REST API version ("2022-11-28") will be deprecated in about 2 years (see the
[GitHub announcement][gh-announcement]). We [pinpointed][efb2e090] it in our GitHub client and plan
to start testing the new version ("2026-03-10") and see what it breaks.

[efb2e090]: https://github.com/rust-lang/triagebot/commit/efb2e090
[gh-announcement]: https://docs.github.com/rest/about-the-rest-api/api-versions?apiVersion=2026-03-10

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/1881/71b9b153b988554cb5541bc366d88268b581b5fb..1ca71c43cf2356a4effa535d83a4b4ecfe8a9853)*

for existing use cases. We want to expand this support further, enabling new
ways to use the keys.

### Partnership with Canonical and Ubuntu Pro for EC2 instances

As a follow-up to [Canonical joining the Rust Foundation](https://canonical.com/blog/canonical-joins-the-rust-foundation-as-a-gold-member) in March,
we got access to [Ubuntu Pro](https://ubuntu.com/pro) licenses and
applied them to our EC2 instances,
including the instance running [docs.rs](http://docs.rs).

We improved our Infrastructure as Code setup to apply these changes, so that Ubuntu
Pro will be enabled by default even in future instances.

### Faster mergeability checks in Bors

We switched from GitHub's REST API to the GraphQL API and cut Bors
pull request mergeability check times from an average of 30 minutes to just 1 minute.

### Add the concept of community reviews before PR assignment

As part of multiple discussions that happened during the 2026 All-hands, the Clippy team asked the Triagebot team to be able to delay the assignment of a reviewer until one or multiple community reviews were done.

> That work was carried out in [triagebot#2426](https://github.com/rust-lang/triagebot/pull/2426) ([docs](https://forge.rust-lang.org/triagebot/pr-assignment.html#community-reviews)). It has yet to be enabled in the Clippy repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That work was carried out in [triagebot#2426](https://github.com/rust-lang/triagebot/pull/2426) ([docs](https://forge.rust-lang.org/triagebot/pr-assignment.html#community-reviews)) and has just been enabled in [Clippy repository](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/issues?q=state%3Aopen%20label%3AS-waiting-on-community-reviews).
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/1881/6ab5435d36f9ed30680ae948a87355bbd64a830f..c2f339dc4ec52471c1547ab22a1b39490272eede)*
